>> Mike North: And
here is the broad agenda for
the topics we're going to
cover as they pertain to Sass.
So first, we're gonna go over
the origins of the library.
You know why it looks the way it looks?
And we're gonna address the fact that
there are two different file types, and
one that we're gonna focus on today and
one that we're not.
And we're gonna go over the basics,
the very basics of how
you can start with a CSS file,
rename it, and
then start to layer on new
behavior as you improve the CSS.
Then we're going to dive
into variables and mixins.
So these are tools you can use
to parameterize your styles.
So if you have a button and you wanna
have like a red, a green, a blue, and
a yellow button,
you shouldn't have to define what that
button looks like over and over again.
In fact, we can kind of design what a
button looks like generically in terms of
a color that we're handed.
And then use that generic definition for
several colors in
order to generate the CSS that
we're looking to generate.
And leave the door open for
generating more buttons of
different colors in the future.
We're gonna go over something
called control flow.
So, if you've done programming before.
If you've worked for
things like ifs, and for-loops, and
iteration, and data structures.
There are these concepts in
the Sass programming language.
In Sass script, right?
Which is what we call this imperative code
that we can write inside a style sheet.
And we'll look at kinda of
some practical use cases for
applying these concepts,
and some situations for
it might not be necessary to sort of jump
in to that extra level of complexity.
So once we kind of establish this baseline
here, we're gonna take a step back and
talk about CSS architecture.
This doesn't retain to Sass directly,
but it is important to
think about different patterns as
to how you can stay organized.
And the type of architecture we're gonna
talk about today is called BEM, B-E-M.
And it's a very popular way of
keeping yourself sorted out so
that you don't collide with styles
between different concerns in your app.
And then finally,
we're gonna finish out today with the most
advanced topic we're gonna cover which is,
defining your own functions in Sass.
So, what we're gonna end up with at
the end is defining a function for
something called relative luminescence.
And that has to do with determining
whether one color is gonna stand out
against another color effectively.
So we'll use that in order to determine,
given the background color of a button,
should the text on the button be black or
white?
Based on whether the visual contrast
is great enough for those two colors.